# ISU-Music-Library
A file to organize music

Set up:
The main data is stored in 3 sperate arraylists. titleList and artistList as Strings, and ratingList as integer strings. Every index of these arraylists are the same song. Also set up is the boolean menu, which is set to true. It is used to set up the while loop the rest of the code is set it. The loops is set to run until menu is made negative. In the loop, the menu is set up, which requests the user to enter their desired action. It is stored in int action. Action sets up the switch case of the rest of the code

Case 1: Add a song. This adds boolean reenter to the code. Most of the code is in a while loop, which ends if enenter is set to false, or the number of entires equals 2. The code asks to enter their title, artist, and rating, which is added to its respective arraylist, and an index is increased by one. If the index is at one, the code asks the user if they wish to enter another song by entering y or n. If they enter no, it goes back to the menu. Otherwise, the user enters another song. 

Case 2: Calculate the average rating. This sets a for loop, goes through every active index of ratingList, adding them up. Then dividing the sum by ratingList.size();. The only variable introduced is averageRating, which holds the sum or the ratings, and later the average.

Case 3: Maximum and Minimum rated songs. This case has variables min and max. These are set to ratingList.get(0). Then, a for loop is set up, similar to the previous case. In it, there are two if blocks. The first checks if the current index is greater than the current max, which sets the index to the max if true. The second does the same, except it checks the if the current index is smaller than the minimum. Afterwards, it prints out the final maximum and minimum

Case 4: Display list of songs. This is another for loop. In it, the index goes up to the size of the arraylist. It prints out the song title, artist, and rating, with the songs index plus one. Then, user input sets up int songDisplay, which operates another switch case. First, edit a song. User enters the ID number, which is subtracted by one and used to update that index in all 3 arraylists. Delete does it similar, but it just deletes the index. Finally, case 3 send the user back to the menu

Case 5: Song Distribution. First, this sets up an Array with 5 indices called distrabution. Then, a for each loop gets the ratings through the ratings arraylist. then, 5 if - if else brackets are set up, each giving the range to a star amount. If it falls in the range, it increases the coordinating index by one. 0 for one star, 1 for 2 stars etc. Afterwards, a for loop finds which index has the highest value, and thus the most songs in that rating. Afterwards, a for loop sets the highest distrabution to the i variable, decreasing by one until it reaches 0. Inside that is a nested for each loop that reads through the columns using the indices. If the value of an indicies is greater than or equal to i, it prints a " * ". otherwise, it prints a "   ". Then it prints a space, a line, and the labels.

Case 6: Search a song. First, this case asks the user to enter what they wish to search for. It scans that and enters it into String search. It also brings back the average calculation, and sets the boolean found to false. Afterwards, a for loop goes through all the indices of both titleList and aritstList. If it find it contains the search string, it sets found to true and prints off the indecies of all three main lists. Then, it takes the average caclulated and compares it to the current songs average, and prints off a messsage accordingly. If nothing is found, a fail message will print. 

Case 7: Top and Bottom 20%. First, int twentyPercent is caluclated by multiplying titleList.size(); multiplied by 0.2, rounded up. Then, it sets up two arrays of that size. high20 and low20. A for loop fills up the arrays with indices until they reach their fullness. Afterwards, they find the indices with the lowest value in the high range and highest value in the low range using two seperate nested loops and store them in ints minTop and maxBottom. Those indecies are replaced with the current i if it fits into the respective range more. After the main loop is done, it prints off the values of the main Arraylists, going through the values of high20 and low20, which are indices for the ArrayLists. 

Case 8: Leave. Sets menu to negative and prints a goodbye message ending the code.
